Welcome back.
Let's talk about some new data structures over here we have stacks and Qs Qs with probably the most
confusing spelling of all time.
Don't worry even I who am fluent in English have a really difficult time spelling this.
But it's cues.
Anyway don't worry the data structure itself is not as confusing as the spelling of this data structure.
We're going to learn to at the same time stacks in queues because they're very similar.
They are both what we call linear data structures and linear data structures allow us to traverse that
is go through data elements sequentially one by one in which only one data element can be directly reached.
And this will become more clear to you as we talk more about stacks and queues throughout the next couple
of videos.
Now the reason that these are very similar is that they can be implemented in similar ways and the main
difference is only how items get removed from this data structure.
You see unlike an array in stacks in queues there's no random access operation.
You mainly use stacks and queues to run commands like push peak pop.
All of which deal exclusively with the element at the beginning or the end of the data structure.
Now after I said that what was your first thought.
Does it kind of sound limiting that with stacks and queues.
We usually only can access the first or the last element and the data structure.
Why would we ever want to use something like this.
And this is an important topic in computer science.
You will see that we can build things like stacks and Qs which are using arrays or linked lists except
unlike arrays and linked lists we have less methods or less actions that we can perform on stacks and
Qs and sometimes it's good to have these higher level data structures that are built on top of lower
level ones like linked lists and arrays to limit the operations you can do on them.
That's actually a benefit in computer science.
Having this limited ability on a data structure is an advantage because you can control that.
Whoever uses this data structure performs only their write operations that are efficient.
If you give somebody all the tools in the world it's a lot harder for them to operate than if you just
give them two or three so that they know exactly what they need to do.
Now let's talk about stacks and queues throughout the next couple of videos to really understand how
they work.
And then finally code our own.
I'll see in the next one.
Babai.